# iLISTEN2ISO
This repository contains a new resource for dialogue act tagging in Italian. In practice, it contains the annotation needed to map iLISTEN corpus to the new ISO 2461-2 schema.
To get the complete corpus annotated with the new schema, you have to download the original corpus from here:
https://github.com/evalita2018/data. After that, you have to move the folder called *iLISTEN* into the project folder called *datasets*.
Then, to apply the ISO standard annotation to iLISTEN corpus, you have to run the following command:
```bash
python generate_iLISTEN2ISO.py
```   
The new resource is saved in the *datasets* folder as **iLISTEN2ISO.json**

## Annotation structure
The annotation is organized as follows:
```json
{
    "dialogue_id": {
        "turn_id": {
            "speaker": "S or U (system or user)",
            "DAs": "initial-greeting, request (dialogue acts contained in this turn)",
            "segmentation": "0,6-end (span of words that composes a segment)"
        }
    }
  }
```
**dialogue** and **turn** ids are generated, such as "training_0" it means that this dialogue comes from the training file, while 0 is an incremental id number. While turn ids are generated by the keyword "turn_" + an incremental id from 0 to n, where n is the number of turns in that dialogue. <br>
**Speaker** field contains information about the speaker of that turn, it could be system("S") or user("U").<br>
**DAs** field contains a list of dialogue acts, separated by commas, that are present in that turn.<br>
**Segmentation** field contains a list of intervals that define the segments of that turn. The intervals are the number position of the corresponding words. Only words are counted, while punctuation marks are joined with the left nearest word, thus they count as a single word. Intervals annotation follows this rules:
- "1": the segment is composed of only one word which is at position 1.
- "5-8": the segment spans from word at position 5 till word at position 8.  
- "6-end": the segment spans from word at position 6 till the end of the turn.

## iLISTEN2ISO structure
The iLISTEN2ISO corpus is structured as:
```json
{
    "dialogue_id": {
        "turn_id": [
            {
                "id": 0,
                "FU": "Ciao, il mio nome e' Valentina.",
                "DA": "initial-greeting",
                "speaker": "S"
            },
            {
                "id": 1,
                "FU": "Sono qui per darti dei suggerimenti su come migliorare la tua dieta.",
                "DA": "inform",
                "speaker": "S"
            }
        ]
      }
}
```

**Dialogue_id** and **turn_id** follow the same logic used in the annotation schema. While, a turn contains multiple functional units. They are defined as:
- **id**: functional unit id.
- **FU**: the portion of utterance that characterizes that FU.
- **DA**: the relative dialogue act.
- **speaker**: the speaker that uttered that turn (S system, U user).
